[theme music]
(male narrator)
Long, long ago,
deep in the forest
there was a hidden village
where tiny creatures lived.
They call themselves Smurfs.
They were good.
[theme music]
Then there was Gargamel,
the evil wizard.
He was bad.
Oh, I hate Smurfs.
I'll get you,
I'll get all of you
if it's the last thing
I ever do!
[evil laughter]
Unh!
Oh, I'll get you.
I'll find your village someday.
You'll be sorry!
(male narrator)
Well, the forest
is still there
and if you listen,
you may hear Gargamel's rage.
And if you are good,
you may just
catch a glimpse of the Smurfs.
[theme music]
Uh, I reckon
this be the worst drought
in a smurfy long time.
The heat be wilting my brain
as well as my cabbage.
[sighs]
At least it can't get any worse.
What a day.
I'm ready to...melt.
[sighs]
Yeah, and it's even
too hot to sleep.
[snores]
Worst of all,
it's too hot to eat...almost.
I know how to beat this heat.
I'll make a big pitcher
of smurfberry juice
and I won't share it
with anybody.
[Brainy giggles]
Oh, no.
'No smurfberries?'
And no smurfberries
means no smurfberry juice.
If this formula works,
it will enlarge
little clouds
into big clouds.
Then we'll have rain at last.
Oops.
[crackling]
[spider screeches]
Uh-oh.
Easy, fella. He he he.
Uh, down boy.
Wait. Uh, hold it. Stop!
If I can just reach
the elfin root, I..
[Papa Smurf grunts]
[slurping]
Well, my enlarging mixture
certainly works.
Now to use it on the clouds.
Wow! I'll bet that mixture
would smurf up
some big fat
smurfberries real fast.
I'll just mix up
a teeny, tiny bit.
Ooh, Hefty, you sure are nice
to carry all these heavy rocks
out of my garden,
especially in this heat.
[Hefty grunts]
- There.
- Ooh, you're so strong.
If I had done that,
I'd just collapse.
Bye now.
[groans]
[giggles]
Smurfberry juice
will soon be a reality
and it will all be mine.
Oh!
Oof.
Now I'll have to go
and mix up some more.
Hey, what happened?
Uh, maybe it's the heat,
and I'm just dreaming.
Ohh!
[stammers]
It's no dream.
[gasps]
Papa Smurf!
Now, how did I do this?
"A dash of dandelion dust.
A touch of tree-toad sweat."
[rumbling]
[all yelling]
Papa Smurf!
'Papa Smurf!'
Uh-oh, somebody's coming.
(Hefty Smurf)
'Papa Smurf, it's me, Hefty.'
'Please open up.'
Ahem. Hefty, there is no need
to make such a big..
Big. Big. Big!
[screams]
He's a m-monster.
Quick, Brainy,
where's Papa Smurf?
He's gotta help me.
I was just resting at the bottom
of Smurfberry Hill and--
Smurfberry Hill?
Yeah, and all of a sudden
this stuff fell on me and--
Stuff? Like p-p-powder?
- Yeah.
- Uh-oh.
And I have to tell Papa Smurf
so he can shrink me
back to normal.
Wait. There's no need
to tell P-Papa Smurf.
- Huh?
- I mean, uh..
Look around you.
'Now you can do things the rest
of us can only dream of.'
'Right, Smurfs? Hee-hee.'
- Uh, yeah.
- He's right.
Why, you're the strongest smurf
in the world.
Hey, that's true.
I'll bet I can clean
all the rocks
out of Smurfette's garden
in a flash.
No, Hefty. Wait. My garden.
Oh, don't worry, Smurfette.
It's no big thing
when you're a big Smurf.
Brainy, how did
all this get started?
It, um, does pose
a mystery, doesn't it?
Ha, ha.. Ouch!
There, Smurfette.
How's that?
Hey, that's my house.
Oops. Ha!
I guess I don't
know my own strength.
[laughs]
[crying]
Ooh. We better
go get Papa Smurf.
Wait. Um, um..
Papa Smurf's off
on important business
and we shouldn't bother him
with our little problems.
Little problems?
And now..
...I'm gonna do something
I always wanted to do.
I'm gonna capture Gargamel.
(Smurfs)
'Oh, no.'
Hefty, wait.
Oh, please don't do this, Hefty.
- Gargamel's dangerous.
- Not anymore.
'He's about to meet his match.'
'Me.'
(Brainy Smurf)
Oh!
So don't you Smurfs worry
about a thing.
I know exactly what I'm doing.
That does it.
I'm going to get Papa Smurf.
[all clamoring]
[gulps]
I've created a monster.
(Gargamel)
'Oh, I hate
this kind of weather.'
'Sunny, bright, cheerful.'
The kind of day
when those rotten Smurfs
have lots of fun. Yuck!
'If I could get my hands
on just one of those vile'
despicable little creatures
I'd wipe the grin
off his little blue face.
[Azrael yowling]
Oh, let go, fur brain.
I've told you
not to interrupt me
when I'm feeling
sorry for myself.
[gasps]
What's this?
I must be dreaming.
[instrumental music]
[Azrael mews]
End of the line, Gargamel.
Smurf, you may be big,
but I'm still bigger.
[laughs]
So what?
I gotcha.
[giggles]
Why, you impudent little--
Crying won't help,
so save your breath.
I'm taking you back
to the village as my prisoner.
That's what you..
[stammers]
Your.. Your village?
You heard me. Now march.
Hmm. Oh. Oh, you've got me.
Oh, please,
please don't hurt me.
Huh?
Oh, I hope I can free myself
before he grabs that even
bigger net on the wall.
Now I got you both.
(Gargamel)
Oh, you certainly do.
[Azrael mewing]
Psst! Azrael, play along.
This is our free ticket
into the Smurf Village.
Huh?
- Oh!
[both laughing]
The catapult's ready,
Papa Smurf.
Alright, Handy. Now let's see
if we can enlarge these clouds
enough to bring some rain.
(Smurfette)
Papa Smurf! Papa Smurf!
Oh, Papa Smurf, come quick.
Smurfette, what's wrong?
Hefty's grown into a giant and--
- A giant?
- Yes.
And now he's gone
to capture Gargamel.
It sounds like someone's
been smurfing
with my enlarging formula.
Quickly, to the village.
Oh, smurf is me.
This is terrible.
And it's all my fault.
Your fault?
- 'So that's it.'
- 'I should've known.'
Wait till Papa Smurf finds out.
(Hefty Smurf)
'Hey, Smurfs.'
'Your problems are over.
Look what I got.'
[all gasp]
(Smurfs)
Gargamel. Azrael.
(Hefty Smurf)
'There's nothing to fear.'
I've single-handedly captured
them, once and for all.
(Gargamel)
'That's what you think.'
Oh, gonna be difficult, huh?
Well, I'm gonna smurf you
a lesson you'll never..
[Hefty gulps]
'Hey, no fair.
Put me down, buster.'
[laughs]
Now to get the rest
of them, Azrael.
[Gargamel laughs]
[Azrael mews]
Oh, Papa Smurf,
what are we gonna do?
This mixture caused
our problems
but maybe it can
also solve them.
My little smurfs,
we'll have to work fast.
Here's what I want you to do.
[laughs]
At last you're mine.
All of you!
[laughs]
(Clumsy Smurf)
Uh.. Oh, Azrael.
Nah, nah-nah, nah-nah, nah.
[snarls]
[growling]
Yoo-hoo, over here.
Bet you can't catch us.
[hissing]
[snarling]
[panting]
Ooh, they're making
a fool of you, Azrael.
'Can't you catch
those puny little pea brains?'
[panting]
Azrael. Here we are.
[snarling]
Ready, smurfs? Jump.
Azrael! You let them
outsmart you.
You're a miserable
fur-brained failure.
Such clumsy incompetence
will not go unpunished, Azrael.
Therefore, I have
decided to keep
all of these smurfs for myself.
[Azrael growling]
[gasps]
Azrael, wh-wh-what..
[growling]
Now, now, Azrael.
Ha-ha, I was only joking.
[chuckles]
I'll-I'll..
I'll let you have
a few of the Smurfs.
Uh-uh, lots of the Smurfs.
Uh, heh, all of the Smurfs?
- Yipe!
- Whoa!
[Azrael growling]
[all laughing]
(Gargamel)
'Ouch. Yike. Ooh.'
Oh, I didn't mean it, Azrael.
I didn't. I was only joking.
Ha-ha-ha!
See, I-I'm laughing.
[Azrael growling]
But I may start crying soon.
[all cheering]
Hefty, a little
of this elfin root
should bring things
back to normal.
Phew! Thanks, Papa Smurf.
Being big was okay for a while.
But it can get lonely
at the top.
[all laughing]
As for Azrael, in time
the mixture will wear off
but not before
he's chased Gargamel
too far away to ever
find the village again.
And now it's time
to clean up this mess.
Brainy?
Yes, sir, Papa Smurf.
Right here, Papa Smurf.
Um, er, uh..
Papa Smurf, being
cleverly brilliant
couldn't you just sort of
whip up a cleaning potion
that I could use instead?
Another potion?
- Oh, no.
- No potions.
(Hefty Smurf)
'How dare you, Brainy Smurf?'
J-j-just kidding.
Help. Papa Smurf. Help!
[giggles]
I think the first thing Brainy
has to clean up is his act.
[giggles]
Smurfette, heh
I think
you're absosmurfly right.
(Brainy Smurf)
Help! Help!
Help!
[theme music]